# Chicago_Rat_Requests
 A map showing rat removal requests in Chicago from January-September 2024

1. The Original Data Source comes from https://data.cityofchicago.org/Service-Requests/311-Service-Requests/v6vf-nfxy/about_data. It contains all of the 311 service requests made in the city of Chicago from 1/1/2024 up until today. Since I want to do a month-by-month analysis of trends, I'll be doing a selection for requests made from January 1, 2024 to September 30, 2024. Then I'll select just the requests related to rats, use the lat/long data to convert to a geojson, and then join to a shapefile of Chicago neighborhoods.
2. The map will display Chicago neighborhoods with the number of rat complaints made each month. There will be a slider that goes from January to September with data displayed for each month. On mouseover, the total for each month will be displayed. Since the map is displaying polygons, it'll be a cloropleth map.
3. https://rats.boston/ exists and does a similar thing but for Boston. Presumably the people who would use this would be Chicagoans who want to make an informed decision about where to live or to stakeholders who want to tackle the rat problem in Chicago.
4. Most of the data processing will be done in ArcGIS Pro. It's a big file (35000 rows), so I don't know how it's going to handle, but we'll see if it can work. Beyond that I'm anticipating keeping the map similar to the one we used in assignment 3 in terms of functionality and tools used.



Since I'm having trouble with recording this here's the script I made to explain what's going on. I'll figure the rest out later.

Hey there, it’s Sam. I guess I have a map to share. It’s not particularly fancy right now in terms of looks but I am satisfied with the functionality, at least given the data that I’ve got. So, the map’s topic is rats. Very exciting, I know, but they’re a real problem for cities to deal with and the amount of money that gets spent on getting rid of them, plus the amount lost by not getting rid of them, is quite staggering. The City of Chicago has a program where you can make a 311 request to the City if you’ve got a rat problem and they’ll send someone out there for free to put down some traps. Chicago is known for really being a different city depending on what neighborhood you’re in, with a lot of geospatial data varying pretty wildly across the city, so I wanted to see if rat complaints follow this trend. Also I wanted to go by month of the year because that also tells us something about rat behavior, in addition to human behavior. So, the users of this map could either be City residents or City government. Obviously, the government wants to know where its resources are being spent and how aware people are of the services it offers, because rats are a public health issue and it's important to take care of the problem everywhere if you can. Residents want to know about this because, hey, you don’t want rats in your community, and if you’re picking a place to live you might want to take the number of rat complaints in the area into account, although this map in particular isn’t great for that for reasons I’ll get into later. So far the map itself is pretty simple, but again, it does what I want it to, for the most part. It’s mostly built off of the work from module 3 because this also deals with polygons, you’ve got your choropleth scheme based on the data for January, and as you use the slider to go between months it updates. You can mouse over a community area to see the community area name and the number of rat complaints that month, you’ve got a cool updating legend that shows the month and you’ve got a slider, info box, and some of the basic tools we use. I like the idea of having a full screen map since I think that’s what you want people to look at, with the info box there if they want to read about it but otherwise hidden. If you go into the actual code there’s not too much fancy here, I simply did the join in ArcGIS Pro instead of in the code because you can’t really do that for many-to-one joins or at least I don’t know how to. You just add the little script tag that loads in the GEOjson as a javascript variable. The bit I think I’ll add is having a zoom and just showing the individual point data for that month if you zoom in close enough. It’ll require remembering how to use the filter function I think or just loading and unloading the data for each month separately, but that’ll make it more resembling another piece of inspiration for this map, the rats.boston map.